You're on.
Yeah, okay, we're running.
Let me try that question from another direction.
The last question.
In terms of your opinion, which book or books are you most satisfied with and secondly,
which of your alien cultures are you perhaps most satisfied with?
That is a very difficult question.
It's like asking a parent to choose among twins and triplets, you know.
There are several books which are dear to my own heart for various reasons.
The more game books I think because they were conceived among the earliest and they contain many things which are, I guess,
most young writers grow up with a sort of a fantasy world of their own and that one does contain some elements of that.
The Fated Sun books because I felt very deeply in numbers of things that I was saying in the down below station in many ways because it cost me so much work in terms of assembling an entire universe
that I am going to use in subsequent books.
I had the feeling that I had just created the world after putting that together.
And certain aliens from particular cultures are, I even got fond of old Soothed in The Fated Sun and only a mother could love that one.
So I do develop a bit of an infection for the number of my alien creations and even some of the unlovable ones, I guess,
just because I know no one else is going to be able to stand them. Soothed, of course, is the villain.
And I cast it in that way and that's not his fault except for being what it is.
But it's very difficult to pick and choose because I guess I always try to do the things that, like the Hunter of Worlds, I like, I think partly because it's a kind of book that I wanted to write and I got away with it.
Don Walheim was very, very understanding in that department because I think many editors would have come and said,
well, yes, but no one will understand those words. You've got to change them to English and that would have defeated the entire purpose of the book.
And that one is sort of one of the very, very strange books that I can reread and find something I didn't know it was there, which is kind of an odd feeling.
Okay, I realize that would be a tough question to answer. I just thought I'd try it anyhow.
You did mention a little while ago that you're working on a number of things. Could you just briefly comment on some of the things you're working on that might be near completion? They're not giving away plots or anything.
Well, my current project is an extension of a short story called The Dream Stone and a novel called Eldwood.
There's set in a sort of an alternate area of England just north of Wales and opposite Ireland. There are fantasy stories.
I wanted to do something with Celtic mythology even before I had read Tolkien.
Tolkien came out with, of course, The Lord of the Rings, which I discovered when I was in university. Before, incidentally, it became as popular as it did.
And I thought, oh dear, someone has done it so well. This is a problem. And it was years before I could tackle anything similar.
So I decided, all right, the only way to get rid of the ghost, as it were, is to go all the way back to mythic sources and to write from the myth rather than from a literary influence.
So that's what I've been attempting to do. Although one must not expect another Lord of the Rings, I was just doing my version of Elves, which has always fascinated me as characters.
But that's been a current project and one which I've had a great deal of joy in, sort of allowing me to stretch unaccustomed muscles.
I've been out of the mythic realm for quite a while, and this was a chance to do it again.
I have several that I'm working on.
Let's see, what people might be interested in ones that I definitely know are forthcoming.
There's one called Merchant's Luck, which should be out this spring, which is a story set in the same area of space as Down Below Station.
It can be read apart from it, completely separate from it, but I think that a reader would enjoy it more if they happened to have read Down Below Station first.
It involves a very, very simple story. It's very alike the story I set out to write and then discovered that you can't do that kind of story without laying your groundwork.
So I built the universe in which this takes place and then wrote the story finally after all this time, which is a very simple space adventure story that I had to build a universe in which it could happen.
Then there's another one, which is quite strange. It's sort of a combination of space technology and Tennyson's idols of the king, which I suppose has to be seen to be believed.
And we're still talking about what the title of that one is going to be, so I can't give a title except to say that it will be out this next year.
I'm working on a number of alien contact things, and I've got a couple of books, which are very strange, that I don't know if I will ever get finished or not, but they're fun to muddle around with.
Okay, David wanted me to ask you this. I guess I would have asked you too. How can you put out so many books? It's incredible.
I've heard a number of books you've come out with in the last couple of years.
Well, I work at it full time, and I enjoy doing it. I mean, physically, they say that it doesn't take very long to write a book.
Like I said, if you do it all from scratch, you could sit down at the typewriter and rip one off and inside a month, maybe two weeks to type a novel if you really want to kill yourself at the keyboard.
The problem is thinking it up. My tendency to shift radically between types of novels, I think, has contributed a great deal to my output.
If I wrote, and as some writers do, all in the same universe, I would have a very great difficulty maintaining the kind of output that I do.
I would get to where I thought I would be thinking, did I say that in this book or was it the last book?
There's also a shifting of types, and there's a fact that I use a computer when I write. That helps a great deal.
I write with a word processor. I have not always, but I started doing that this year.
And before that, I wrote with a sort of a semi-word processor, which again, speeded things up a great deal.
And actually, I believe that the last of my works to be composed on an ordinary typewriter was The Fated Sun.
And if you ask how did I maintain my output up to that point, the answer is that I'd rather kill myself.
I literally would leave the keyboard with my back hurting so badly that it hurt to straighten up.
My fingers aching where I would soak them in hot water trying to get the peaks out of them.
Nowadays, I find writing a good deal more a lot relaxing.
I just have the computer print out my latest stuff, and I lie down on the couch,
prop my feet up and sit there and go over the rough with a pencil,
and sip coffee with one hand and make leisurely corrections with the other.
So it's a good deal, easier.
Okay, we've been amazed at how many science fiction writers are using word processors these days.
I guess that does save time.
Do you have any possible movie racks coming up, or anything that might be made into movies?
Yes, I'm not sure really how much I ought to talk about that particular item,
because some of the things are under negotiation, and it might not be thoroughly helpful,
but suffice it to say that there has been some movie interest in some things,
also games, and this sort of thing.
Yeah, okay, that's fine.
Okay, that's really all I guess.
We've taken enough of your time.